# dataModel.OCF
These data models come from the original [Open Connectivity Foundation repository](https://github.com/openconnectivityfoundation/IoTDataModels). They have been extended to comply with NGSI requirements.

### List of data models

The following entity types are available:
- [acceleration](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/acceleration/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource provides a measure of proper acceleration (g force) as opposed to co-ordinate acceleration (which is dependent on the co-ordinate system and the observer). The Property 'value' is a float which describes the acceleration experienced by the object in 'g'.

- [AutoFocus](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/AutoFocus/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes an auto focus on/off feature. The Property 'autoFocus' is a boolean. An 'autoFocus' value of 'true' means that the auto focus feature is on. An 'autoFocus' value of 'false' means that the auto focus feature is off. Note that when Pan Tilt Zoom (see 'Pan Tilt Zoom' Resource definition) is used the autofocus works only in the selected area.

- [AutomaticDocumentFeeder](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/AutomaticDocumentFeeder/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the state of an automatic document feeder, typically used with a scanner. The Property 'adfstates' and 'currentAdfState' are read only. The Property 'adfStates' is an array of the possible operational states. The Property 'adfProcessing' is the OK state, other states are errors or require 'user attention'. The currentAdfState is the current value of the ADF state on the device.

- [AutoWhiteBalance](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/AutoWhiteBalance/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes an auto balance on/off feature. The Property 'autoWhiteBalance' is a boolean. An AutoWhiteBalance value of 'true' means that the auto white balance feature is on. An AutoWhiteBalance value of 'false' means that the auto white balance feature is off. 

- [BatteryMaterial](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/BatteryMaterial/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the battery material represented as an enumerated set of strings.

- [BinarySwitch](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/BinarySwitch/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a binary switch (on/off). The Property 'value' is a boolean. A value of 'true' means that the switch is on. A value of 'false' means that the switch is off. 

- [BodyLocationTemperature](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/BodyLocationTemperature/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the Properties associated with body location for temperature measurement of a person. The bloc Property is a read-only value that is provided by the Server.

- [Brewing](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Brewing/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the attributes associated with brewing. This resource is used for configuration only. The Operation of the Device is handled independently of this Resource. The amount requested is in ml. The strength of a brewed drink is an integer, the range of which may be enforced by the presence of a strengthrange Property.

- [Brightness](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Brightness/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the brightness of a light or lamp. The Property 'brightness' is an integer showing the current brightness level as a quantized representation in the range 0-100. A brightness of 0 is the minimum for the resource. A brightness of 100 is the maximum for the resource.

- [Button](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Button/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the operation of a button style switch. The Property 'value' is a boolean. A value of 'true' means that the button is being pushed/pressed. A value of 'false' means that the button is not being pushed/pressed.

- [Calorific](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Calorific/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes Properties associated with the energy associated with the consumption of different fuels (including natural gas) The calorific value is a number the calorific value is a measure of the available heat energy, used as part of the calculation to convert a volume of a fuel (e.g. m3) to an energy value (e.g. KWh). 

- [Clock](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Clock/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the properties associated with clock and time. Clock is a time information. The Property 'datetime' is using RFC3339 datetime format (e.g: '2007-04-05T14:30Z') (Time+Date+Timezone) The Property 'countdown' is the desired total seconds for countdown.

- [ColourChroma](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/ColourChroma/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the colour using chroma conventions. Properties are 'hue', 'saturation', 'csc', and 'ct'. The Property 'hue' is the hue angle, it is an integer value as defined by the CIECAM02 model definition (see reference [CIE CIE159:2004]). The Property 'saturation' is an integer value as defined by the CIECAM02 model definition (see reference [CIE CIE159:2004]). The Property 'maximumsaturation' is the upper bound on the saturation supported by the Device. If not present the maximum value for 'saturation' is 32767. The Property 'csc' is the colour space coordinates in CIE colour space.   The first item in the array is the X coordinate.   The second item in the array is the Y coordinate. The Property 'nct' is the Mired colour temperature. The Resource provides the colour using chroma conventions.

- [ColourCSC](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/ColourCSC/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the colour using colour space co-ordinates. The Property 'csc' is the colour space coordinates in CIE colour space.   The first item in the array is the X coordinate.   The second item in the array is the Y coordinate.   If the Property 'precision' is provided it applies to both the X and Y coordinates. The Resource provides the colour using colour space coordinates. 

- [ColourHS](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/ColourHS/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the colour using hue-saturation conventions. The Property 'hue' is the hue angle, it is a number value as defined by the CIECAM02 model definition (see reference [CIE CIE159:2004]). A Device that does not support fractional hue angles can provide integer values. If Property 'precision' is provided it applies to the hue angle. The Property 'saturation' is an integer value as defined by the CIECAM02 model definition (see reference [CIE CIE159:2004]).  The Property 'saturation' can be converted to a percentage by saturation/maximumsaturation X 100; where maximumsaturation is 32767 if the Property itself is not present. The Property 'maximumsaturation' is the upper bound on the saturation supported by the Device. If not present the maximum value for saturation is 32767. The Resource provides the colour using hue and saturation conventions. 

- [consumable](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/consumable/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource specifies a thing that can be consumed such as filter material, printer toner etc The Propert 'typeofconsumable' is an enumeration defining the thing being consumed as defined by the Smart Home Device Specification The Property 'remaining' is an integer capturing the percentatge remaining life The Property 'orderpercentage' is an integer capturing the percentage life at which replacement or replenishment is recommended by the manufacturer The Property 'url' is a string containing a URL at which further information may be obtained with respect to the consumable.

- [Conversion](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Conversion/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes Properties associated with the energy associated with the consumption of different fuels (including natural gas) The conversion factor is a number used as part of the calculation to convert gas volume to gas energy. The value used for this calculation is generally defined by local regulations and the conversion factor resource is therefore configurable. Provides the conversion factor used/required as part of the calculation to convert from fuel volume (m3) to fuel energy (kWh). 

- [Count](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Count/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource specifies an activity count. The Resource can be readonly (oic.if.s interface) in which instance it represents a count. The Resource can be readwrite (oic.if.a interface) in which instance it represents a goal or target for a count. The Property 'count' is an integer representing either the current count or goal value.

- [Dali](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Dali/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the DALI write resource, able to convey FF and BF according  IEC 62386-104, Digital  addressable lighting interface - Part 104: General requirements - Wireless and alternative wired system. Retrieve on this Resource only returns common Properties. 

- [Deodorization](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Deodorization/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a deodorization function, which can be supported by controlling on air filter.   The Property 'mode' is a mode of the deodorization function. The supported modes are defined by the enumeration ['off', 'on', 'auto'].  'off' means that the deodorization function is not enabled. 'on' means that the deodorization function is active. 'auto' means that the deodorization function is automatically controlled depending on sensed air condition in the device inside.  The Property 'currentstate' is the current state of the deodorization function. In the case of 'auto' mode, if the sensed air condition is determined to be bad, the function will be 'on'. Then, 'mode' value is 'auto' and 'currentstate' value is 'on'. If not, the function is remaining 'off' state. Then, 'currentstate' value is 'off'.

- [Door](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Door/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the open state of the door. A door is modelled by means of openState (Open/Closed), openDuration (ISO 8601 Time), and openAlarm (boolean). For Property 'openState', the value 'Open' indicates the door is open. The value 'Closed' indicates the door is closed. The type of Property 'openDuration' is an RFC Time encoded string. The Property 'openAlarm' value 'true' indicates that the open alarm is active. The openAlarm value 'false' indicates that open alarm is not active. retrieves the state of the Door.

- [ecomode](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/ecomode/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource specifies the supported and currently active Eco Mode of a Device The Resource is a deriviative of the Mode Resource (oic.r.mode) with a restriction that the population of supportedmodes and modes Properties is restricted to the set of values: 'disabled','enabled','notsupported'. The adminforced Property indicates that the value has been set by another party (e.g. via some offboard Smart Energy interaction) 

- [EnergyGeneration](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/EnergyGeneration/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the attributes associated with energy generation The Property 'energygenerated' is a number that provides the energy generated in Watt-hour(Wh).

- [EnergyOverload](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/EnergyOverload/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes whether an energy overload detector/circuit breaker is currently tripped. The Property 'value' is a boolean. A value of 'true' means that energy overload has been tripped. A value of 'false' means that energy overload has not been tripped. 

- [GlassBreak](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/GlassBreak/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a glass break sensor. The Property 'value' is a boolean. A value of 'true' means that glass break has been sensed. A value of 'false' means that glass break not been sensed.

- [GlucoseHealth](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/GlucoseHealth/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the Properties associated with context health. The health Property is a read-only value that is provided by the Server where minor and major are related to the general health or the level of illness of the person; menses refers to the female menstrual cycle; stress refers to physiological or psychological stress.

- [GlucoseMeal](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/GlucoseMeal/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the Properties associated with context meal. Preprandial means pre-meal. Postprandial means post-meal. Fasting means the effect of long-term absence of food intake (overnight). The meal Property is a read-only value that is provided by the Server.

- [GlucoseSampleLocation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/GlucoseSampleLocation/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the Properties associated with context sample Location. AST means Alternative Site Test specifying that the location of test performed was from an alternative site on the body. The samplelocation Property is a read-only value that is provided by the Server.

- [GlucoseTester](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/GlucoseTester/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the Properties associated with context tester. The tester Property is a read-only value that is provided by the Server where especially hcp stands for HealthCare Professional.

- [heartRateZone](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/heartRateZone/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a measured heart rate by the current Zone using the Zoladz method. The Zoladz method defines Zones based on maximum heart rate; Zone 1 is the lowest, Zone 5 is the highest. The heartRateZone is an enumeration containing one of: 'Zone1', 'Zone2', 'Zone3', 'Zone4', and 'Zone5'. 

- [HeatingZone](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/HeatingZone/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource provides information about the status of a (single) heating zone of a Cook-Top. It describes the case of a Cook-Top whose zones can be activated dynamically (i.e. the device implements pot recognition). The Property 'maxheatinglevel' defines the max level for the heating zone The Property 'heatinglevel' is the current heating level of the zone   For each element, the value range is from 0 (indication that the zone is not heating) to 'maxheatinglevel'.

- [ImpactSensor](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/ImpactSensor/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource provides a status and properties of an impact sensor. Included is the current status (boolean), horizontal and vertical direction (in degrees) and impact level (g force).

- [KeyCardSwitch](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/KeyCardSwitch/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the operation of a KeyCard style switch. It has one mandatory Property,'stateofcard', which is a string enum type. It has two enum values: 'validCardInserted', 'validCardNotInserted'. 'validCardInserted' means that a keycard was inserted and passed validation check. 'validCardNotInserted' means that a keycard is not inserted or it was inserted but failed to pass validation check.

- [KeyPadChar](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/KeyPadChar/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a char (0-9,*,#) which is selected on a number keypad.

- [Lock](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Lock/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. The Resource describing a lock. The Property 'lockState' is a string. The value 'Locked' indicates that the door is Locked. The value 'Unlocked' indicates that the door is Unlocked.

- [LockCode](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/LockCode/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. The Resource describing a lock code. The Property 'lockCodeList' is an array of possible codes that may be associated with a lock. The codes are all presented as strings.

- [magneticFieldDirection](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/magneticFieldDirection/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the direction of the Earth's magnetic field at the observer's current point in space. Typical use case includes measurement of compass readings on a personal device. The Property 'value' is an array containing Hx, Hy, Hz (in that order) each of which are floats. Each of Hx, Hy and Hz are expressed in A/m (Amperes per metre).

- [Media](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Media/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource specifies the media types that an OCF Server supports. The resource is an array of media elements.  Each element contains:     A URL at which the specified media type can be accessed.     A string array containing the definition of the media using SDP.     Each entry in the sdp array is an SDP line.     Each line shall follow the SDP description syntax as defined in the SDP specification. The SDP specification can be found at http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4566.

- [mediaSource](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/mediaSource/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource defines a single media source that exists on a device. The source can be an input source or output source, this resource is agnostic of that. The Property 'sourceName' specifies a pre-defined media input or output (e.g.'HDMI', 'DVI'). The Property 'sourceNumber' is a label to specify the instance (e.g. 'PC', '1'). The Property 'sourceType' is an enumeration defining whether the source is audio, video or both. The Property 'status' is a boolean that determines if the specific source instance is selected or not.  A status of true means that the source instance is selected.  A status of false means that the source instance is not selected.

- [Mode](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Mode/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the modes of operation that a Device can provide. The mode can be read or set. The Property 'supportedModes' is an array of possible modes the device supports. The Property 'modes' is an array of the currently active mode(s).

- [Motion](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Motion/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes whether motion has been sensed or not. The Property 'value' is a boolean. A value of 'true' means that motion has been sensed. A value of 'false' means that motion not been sensed. 

- [movement](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/movement/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource specifies linear movement. The Property 'movementSettings' is an array of strings containing possible movement values (e.g. spin, stop, left, right). The Property 'movement' is the currently selected movement value. The Property 'movementModifier' is a modifier to the movement value (e.g. 'spin', '90') 

- [MuscleOxygenSaturation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/MuscleOxygenSaturation/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the muscle oxygen saturation (SmO2), which is the percentage of hemoglobin that is saturated with oxygen in the capillaries of a muscle.  The unit is percentage.  The smo2 Property is a read-only value that is provided by the server.

- [NightMode](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/NightMode/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a night mode on/off feature. A nightMode value of 'true' means that the feature is on. A nightMode value of 'false' means that the feature is off.

- [PanTiltZoom](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/PanTiltZoom/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource specifies the pan tilt and zoom capabilities of a device. The Resource Type is dynamic and reflects whether the values apply to   physical movement of the device or digital/virtual enhancements to the image. For physical movement the Resource Type is 'oic.r.movement.ptz'. For digital/virtual image enhancements the Resource Type is 'oic.r.image.ptz'. The Properties 'pan' and 'tilt' are specified in degrees. The Property 'zoomFactor' is a value in the range 1-100 for linear (optical) zoom. The zoom factor is a value in the range [1x, 2x, 4x, 8x, 16x, 32x] for digital zoom. If there is no zoom value to set the zoom factor shall be '1x'. The value 0 degrees means neutral, this is a vendor defined setting. Note that this resource also can be used to create an offset for physical movement. When that is the case, the Resource Type value is: 'oic.r.movement.offset.ptz' Note that this resource also can be used to create an offset for image movement. When that is the case, the Resource Type value is: 'oic.r.image.offset.ptz'. When the Property 'pan_range' value is omitted, then the range is [-180.0,180.0]. If 'pan' is not supported then the range shall be [0.0,0.0] When the Property 'tilt_range' value is omitted, then the range is [-180.0,180.0]. If 'tilt' is not supported then the range shall be [0.0,0.0].

- [Presence](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Presence/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes whether presence has been sensed or not. The Property 'value' is a boolean. A value of 'true' means that presence has been sensed. A value of 'false' means that presence not been sensed.

- [PrintQueue](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/PrintQueue/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the items in a Printer Queue. The Properties 'uri' and 'status' are read only items that cannot be changed through this resource.

- [pulsatileoccurrence](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/pulsatileoccurrence/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the Properties associated with a Pulsatile Occurrence detected by a Pulse Oximeter.  The occurrence Property is a read-only value that is provided by the server.  When range (from 'oic.r.baseresource') is omitted the default is 0 to +MAXFLOAT.

- [RemoteControl](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/RemoteControl/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a remote control function, which helps users to control a device without the actual remote controller provided by the manufacturer.

- [RenderingIndex](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/RenderingIndex/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a Colour Rendering Index (CRI). The Property 'cri' is an number. A colour rendering index (CRI) is a quantitative measure of the ability of a light source to reveal the colours of various objects faithfully in comparison with an ideal or natural light source. Light sources with a high CRI are desirable in colour-critical applications such as neonatal care and art restoration. It is defined by the International Commission on Illumination (CIE) as follows:[1]  Colour rendering: Effect of an illuminant on the colour appearance of objects by conscious or subconscious comparison with their colour appearance under a reference illuminant. The value often quoted as 'CRI' on commercially available lighting products is properly called the CIE Ra value, 'CRI' being a general term and CIE Ra being the international standard colour rendering index

- [Request](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Request/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a DALI (addressing) configuration,  IEC 62386-104, Digital  addressable lighting interface - Part 104: General requirements - Wireless and alternative wired system. 

- [Saturation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Saturation/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a Colour saturation value. The Property 'colourSaturation' is an integer. A 'colourSaturation' has a range of [0,100]. A 'colourSaturation' value of 0 means producing black and white images. A 'colourSaturation' value of 50 means producing device specific normal colour images. A 'colourSaturation' value of 100 means producing device very full colour images. 

- [SelectableLevels](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/SelectableLevels/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource provides a set of device defined levels that can be selected for an operation. For example where a humidifier has a discrete set that model different humidity levels that can be set. The Property 'availablelevels' is an array of the levels that can be selected, these can be a number or an integer (as subset of integer). The Property 'targetlevel' is the level that has currently been selected and is written to in order to select a new level. When retrieved the targetlevel provides the actual value that has been selected.

- [settings-accessibility](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/settings-accessibility/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. Gets current device accessibility settings.

- [settings-broadcasting](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/settings-broadcasting/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. Gets current device broadcasting settings.

- [settings-sound](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/settings-sound/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. Gets current device sound settings.

- [settings-support](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/settings-support/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. Gets current device support settings.

- [SignalStrength](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/SignalStrength/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the strength of a signal by means of lqi and rssi. The Property 'lqi' is a floating point number that represents Link Quality Indicator. The Property 'rssi' is a floating point number that represents the received signal strength indicator.

- [Sleep](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Sleep/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the Properties associated with Sleep. Sleep shows the time spent in each of the sleep stages (awake, nrem1, nrem2, nrem3, nrem4, rem, light sleep, deep sleep), along with a sleep score indicating the quality of sleep.

- [SoundPressure](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/SoundPressure/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a measured sound pressure in Pascal (pa).  The Sound pressure is a property of the sound field at a point in space where the point is the actual location of the sensor.

- [SoundPressureLevel](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/SoundPressureLevel/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes a measured sound pressure in dB.  The Sound pressure is a property of the sound field at a point in space where the point is the actual location of the sensor.

- [Speech](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Speech/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource may be created on the OCF Server that is capable of rendering speech by an OCF Client and allows the client to provide an SSML document with text to render  or may be created on the OIC Server by some resident application. The audio rendered is at this stage local to the Server (i.e. not streamed). The utterance is an SSML document. The supportedLanguages is an array of the RFC5646 defined language tags that are supported. The supportedVoices is an SSML document fragment indicating the voices that are supported. Utterance in the example shall be a properly escaped (JSON rules) SSML document. An example:   '<?xml version='1.0' encoding='ISO-8859-1'?> <speak version='1.1' xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis' xmlns:xsi='http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance' xsi:schemaLocation='http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis http://www.w3.org/TR/speech-synthesis11/synthesis.xsd' xml:lang='en-US'>
The title of the movie is: 'Monty Pythons The Meaning of Life' which is directed by Terry Jones. </speak' 

- [SpO2](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/SpO2/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the Properties associated with a person's blood oxygen saturation level.  The spo2 and perfusion Properties are read-only value that is provided by the server.  When range (from 'oic.r.baseresource') is omitted the default is 0 to +MAXFLOAT.

- [Touch](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/Touch/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes whether a touch has been sensed or not. The Property 'value' is a boolean. A value of 'true' means that touch has been sensed. A value of 'false' means that touch not been sensed. 

- [UserInfo-retrieve](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/UserInfo-retrieve/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource defines credentials for user to application layer login. This does not relate to OCF Device to Device or Device to Cloud authentication. The username, password and token are strings.

- [UVARadiation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/UVARadiation/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource specifies UV radiation measurement. The Property 'measurement' is the current measured UVA. The intensity of UV radiation is measured in the units of milliwatts per square centimeter (mW/cm2) which is energy per square centimeter received per second. UVA is measured between 315 and 400 nanometers in the electromagnetic spectrum.

- [UVBRadiation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/UVBRadiation/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource specifies UV radiation measurement. The Property 'measurement' is the current measured UVB. The intensity of UV radiation is measured in the units of milliwatts per square centimeter (mW/cm2) which is energy per square centimeter received per second. UVB is measured between 280 and 315 nanometers in the electromagnetic spectrum.

- [UVRadiation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/UVRadiation/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource specifies UV radiation measurement. The Property 'measurement' is the current measured UV Index

- [WaterInfo](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/WaterInfo/README.md). Smart Data Models Program adaptation of the original IoTData data Models. This Resource describes the water information to indicate type of water currently provided by the device. The water type can be read or set. The Property 'supportedwatertypes' is an array of the possible water types are defined by the enumeration ['cold', 'hot', 'ambient', 'ice']. The Property 'supportedadditivetypes' is an array of the possible additive types for water. The additive types mean optional types that can be added to the specific water type according to Client's preference and are defined by the enumeration ['none', 'soda', 'mineral']. If absent, the default value is 'none'.  The Property 'currentwatertype' is the currently desired water type.  The Property 'currentadditivetypes' is the currently desired additive type(s).  For example, if 'cold' is selected with the 'currentwatertype', 'soda' and 'mineral' or both can be selected as 'currentadditivetypes'. Note that if 'hot' is selected with the 'currentwatertype', 'soda' and 'mineral' may be restricted for the 'currentadditivetypes'.



### Contributors
[Link](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/blob/master/CONTRIBUTORS.yaml) to the 1 current contributors of the data models of this Subject.


### Contribution
You can raise an [issue](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/issues) or submit your [PR](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.OCF/pulls) on existing data models


